#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble


\usepackage{fancyhdr}

\oddsidemargin0cm
\topmargin-2cm
\textwidth16.5cm
\textheight23.5cm

\newcommand{\question}[2]{\vspace{.25in} \hrule\vspace{0.5em}
\noindent{\bf #1: #2} \vspace{0.5em}
\hrule \vspace{.10in}}
\renewcommand{\part}[1]{\vspace{.10in} {\bf (#1)}}

\newcommand{\myname}{Write your name here!}
\newcommand{\myandrew}{write-your-andrew-id-here@andrew.cmu.edu}
\newcommand{\myhwnum}{homework-number-here}





\lhead{\fancyplain{}{\textbf{HW\myhwnum}}}
\rhead{\fancyplain{}{\myname\\ \myandrew}}
\chead{\fancyplain{}{15-150}}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 11
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize letterpaper
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 2
\use_package amssymb 2
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip 5pt
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace medskip
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center

\size larger
15-214 Homework 4
\size default
 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 Muhammad Ahmed Shah 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 mshah1 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center

\shape smallcaps
Rationale
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This design achieves 
\series bold
modular continuity
\series default
 in special tiles through the use of the strategy and template pattern by
 abstracting the Special Tiles behind the 
\family typewriter
SpecialTile
\family default
 which is an abstract.
 This would allow the integration of special tiles implementing a different
 effect to be integrated with no change to the rest of the implentation.
 Most classes keep the logic contained within them so other clases can use
 them as a blackbox.
 For example the move class that enforces some rules on how the tiles are
 placed, may be changed to add new rules or remove some rules if we change
 the game but the GameBoard class would not be effected.
 This would allow the implementation to be altered and new classes that
 provide the functionalities to be added with no changes to the logic in
 other classes as long as the new classes continue to uphold the behavioral
 contracts established.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This design achieves 
\series bold
modular decomposability
\series default
 through adherence to the GRASP.
 The 
\family typewriter
GameEngine
\family default
 class acts as the controller with its job being the point of entry into
 the code for the GUI.
 It recieves requests from the GUI and passes them on to the relevant classes
 and based on their responses notifies the GUI on any updates that it may
 need to make.
 This has made possible to create several small yet highly specialized classes
 that handle a small subset of problems.
 As an example, we can look at the 
\family typewriter
Move
\family default
 class which specializes in tracking and verifying tile placements so it
 functionas as an information expert for the 
\family typewriter
move
\family default
 objects.
 All the validation logic for a move resides in the 
\family typewriter
GameBoard
\family default
 class so the 
\family typewriter
GameEngine
\family default
 only needs to call 
\family typewriter
board.validateMove
\family default
 to ensure that the move is a valid one.
 The task of verifying the validity of a word is bestowed wholly on the
 
\family typewriter
Dictionary
\family default
 class.
 No other class has any contribution to the decisions of 
\family typewriter
isValidWord
\family default
 so modifying the rules there or adding new words will not influence the
 logic in other clases.
 The 
\family typewriter
GameBoard
\family default
 also calculates the points by extracting them from the 
\family typewriter
BoardSquare
\family default
.
 Determining the score for a tile placed on a square is completely delgated
 to the 
\family typewriter
BoardSquare
\family default
 so that it specializes in providing information of about a square on the
 board and its contents.
 The other classes need not keep track of the point values of the tiles
 and the multiplier of the square.
 All this handled by the 
\family typewriter
BoardSquare
\family default
 class.
 In this situation the LetterTile class acts as an information expert for
 a particular tile and the BoardSquare class for the properties of a square
 on the board.
 Similarly the Person class is the information expert for a player.
 It holds its name and score so no other class needs to keep track of scores.
 they can just request it from the Person class.
 By separating and insulating the implementations of the functionalities
 offered by each class we make development highly localized so that future
 development can proceed on the individual components without the need to
 make large changes in the modules using these components.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The downside of decomposing the problem into smaller modules and using each
 of them almost like a black box is that we need to assume the result of
 these mini modules be correct.
 This leads to a higher level of coupling between the 
\family typewriter
GameEngine
\family default
 and the other classes while achieving high cohesion.
 Of course there are contracts which regulate these interactions but if
 a module violates the contract then there is a high probability that the
 error will leak into other classes as well leading to a low level of modular
 protection.
 This is the price that we must pay for the conveniences offered by having
 highly specialized modules.
 Like any assembly line practicing division of labour all proceses rely
 on the correctness of the preceding process since none of them has any
 insight into the larger product that they are producing.
 To overcome this it would require that the preconditions for every class
 and method be enforced rigourously through exceptions and conditions verifying
 the results of the previous modules.
 This design also employs small interfaces to achieve continuity and protection.
 The 
\family typewriter
GameEngine
\family default
 is the centerpiece of the design so different classes can function independentl
y.
 So, for example, the 
\family typewriter
GameBoard
\family default
 doesn't need to be aware of the player and vice versa.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The GameEngine class employs the 
\series bold
observer pattern
\series default
 to integrate with the user interface.
 This allows flexibility in creating and adding new UI classes for the game.
 The GameChangeListener defines the interface that the GameEngine expects
 from every class that will provide UI functionality, how the class reacts
 to the notifications is totally upto it.
 However it can do so while being oblivious of the finer details in the
 actual implementation of the game.
 Moreover it opens up the possibility of having multiple UIs for the game
 by storing a list of GameChangeListeners in the GameEngine and notifications
 would be sent to all of them.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
